##WHAT TO DO IF YOU ARE FEELING HOPELESS ABOUT THE CURRENT POLITICAL CLIMATE 

By Sean Tubo 

1. MAKE ART

Write an essay, a zine, a politically charged power ballad. Make it original. Or don't. Read about all the punks and freaks and rebellious artists who came before you. Be inspired. Think about if their work mattered.

Did it?

Wonder if rebellion can be derivative.

2. ENGAGE IN NOSTALGIA

This one is difficult because the past is facing a lot of inflationary pressure. You can still try anyway. The past used to be like 50 years ago when everything kicked ass. Now the past is 20 years ago.

Shit sucked 20 years ago. 20 years ago my parents were broke, having kids a little too late and buying a house they couldn't even pay off. The internet was a thing and already a little bit terrible. They still arent retired.

3. SCREAM

This one seems pretty handy at least. Go outside and scream. If you have some woods even better. Make sure it reads as a fed-up, dejected scream and not a terrifying scream though. We don't need that right now.

4. THINK ABOUT ALL THE TIMES YOU WERE RIGHT ABOUT EVERYTHING

In 2022 when I graduated high school I asked my classmates how they thought the next war would be presented online, after Ukraine had turned internet attention into a kind of warfare all it's own.

They didn't get what I meant.

5. ASSASINATE A SITTING PRESIDENT

I'm sorry that the Whitest Kids You Know already did this joke 15 years ago. See what I mean about nostalgia running on a short cycle. Like Trevor Moore, I am a white boy trying to make political art fighting the knowledge that I and probably nobody else I know will take the severe action that seems required to change anything.

Speaking of.

6. IGNORE IT

You could probably get away with this right? After all you sit at the heart of the imperial core. These problems won't affect you for 15 years at least. Actually, by pretending that the rise of fascism won't affect you you're doing an excellent job acknowledging your privilege compared to the people fascism is already, definitely, affecting.

This poem probably doesn't mean anything right?

7. DIE IN THE CLIMATE CRISIS

Almost forgot about this one huh? It's ok. Theres every chance you get wiped out in a severe weather event long before you have to flee the country or start paying even more for bread. As you do, feel free to reflect on the potent metaphor created by the death of the Earth as we know it and the anthropocene holocaust. It just wouldn't be the same if we all died of the green house effect in like, a utopian society.
